Hit Dice = D10
++ Spell Slots

### Fighting Style

You adopt a style of fighting as your speciality. Choose one of the following
options. You can't take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you
later get to choose again.

    Defense
        While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.

    Dueling
        When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other
        weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.

### Great Weapon Fighting

When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee
weapon that you are wielding with two hands, you can reroll the die and must
use the new roll. The weapon must have the Two-Handed or Versatile property
for you to gain this benefit.

### Protection

When a creature you can see attacks a target other than you that is within 5
feet of you, you can use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack
roll. You must be wielding a shield.

### Spellcasting

You have learned to draw on divine magic through meditation and prayer to cast
spells as a cleric does.

To cast one of your Paladin spells of 1st level or higher, you must expend a
slot of the spell's level or higher. You regain all expended spell slots when
you finish a Long Rest.

You prepare the list of Paladin spells that are available for you to cast,
choosing from the Paladin spell list. When you do so, choose a number of
Paladin spells equal to your Charisma modifier plus half your Paladin level
rounded down (to a minimum of one). The spells must be of a level for which
you have spell slots.

For example, if you are a 5th-level Paladin, you have four 1st-level and two
2nd-level spell slots. With a Charisma of 14, your list of prepared spells can
include four spells of 1st or 2nd level, in any combination. If you prepare
the 1st-level spell Cure Wounds, you could cast it using either a 1st-level or
2nd-level spell slot. Casting the spell doesn't remove it from your list of
prepared spells.

You can change your list of prepared spells when you finish a Long Rest.
Preparing a new list of Paladin spells requires time spent in prayer and
meditation, at least 1 minute per spell level per spell on your list.

### Spellcasting Ability

Your power derives from the strength of your convictions, hence you use your
Charisma whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability.

    Spell save DC = 8 plus your Proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier
    Spell attack modifier = your Proficiency bonus + your Charisma modifier

### Spellcasting Focus

You can use a holy symbol as a spellcasting focus for your Paladin spells.

### Divine Smite

When you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, you can expend one spell
slot to deal radiant damage to the target in addition to the weapon's damage.
The extra damage is 2D8 for a 1st-level spell slot, plus 1D8 for each extra
level higher than 1st to a maximum of 5D8. The damage increases by a further
1D8 if the target is an undead or a fiend.
