Hit Dice = D6
++ Spell Slots
++ Added Spells: three Wizard, cantrip
++ Added to Spellbook: six Wizard, 1st-level
++ Prepared Spells: 1 + Intelligence Modifier (min. 1)

### Spellcasting

As a student of arcane magic, you have a spellbook containing spells that show
the first glimmerings of your true power. To cast a spell, you must expend a
spell slot of the spell's level or higher. You regain all expended spell slots
when you finish a Long Rest.

You prepare the list of spells that are available for you to cast. To do so,
choose a number of Wizard spells from your spellbook equal to your
Intelligence modifier plus your Wizard level (minimum of 1). The spells must
be of a level for which you have spell slots.

For example, if you're a 3rd-level Wizard, you have four 1st-level and two
2nd-level spell slots. With an Intelligence of 16, your list of prepared
spells can include six spells of 1st or 2nd level, in any combination, chosen
from your spellbook. If you prepare the 1st-level spell Magic Missile, you can
cast it using a 1st-level or a 2nd-level slot. Casting the spell doesn't
remove it from your list of prepared spells.

You can change your list of prepared spells when you finish a Long Rest.
Preparing a new list of Wizard spells requires time spent studying your
spellbook and memorizing the incantations and gestures you must make to cast
the spell, at least 1 minute per spell level per spell on the list.

#### Cantrips

You know three cantrips of your choice from the Wizard spell list.

#### Spellbook

You have a spellbook containing six 1st-level Wizard spells of your choice.
Your spellbook is the repository of the wizard spells you know, except for
your cantrips which are fixed in your mind.

#### Spellcasting Ability

Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for your Wizard spells, since you
learn your spells through dedicated study and memorization. You use your
Intelligence whenever a spell refers to your spellcasting ability. In
addition, you use your Intelligence modifier when setting the saving throw DC
for a Wizard spell you cast and when making an attack roll with one.

    Spell save DC = 8 plus your Proficiency bonus plus your Intelligence modifier
    Spell attack modifier = your Proficiency bonus plus your Intelligence modifier

#### Ritual Casting

You can cast a Wizard spell as a ritual if that spell has the ritual tag and
you have the spell in your spellbook. You don't need to have the spell
prepared.

#### Spellcasting Focus

You can use an arcane focus as a spellcasting focus for your Wizard spells.

#### Learning Spells

Each time you gain a Wizard level, you can add two Wizard spells of your
choice to your spellbook for free. Each of these spells must be of a level for
which you have spell slots. On your adventures, you might find other spells
that you can add to your spellbook.

Your Spellbook
The spells that you add to your spellbook as you gain levels reflect the
arcane research you conduct on your own, as well as intellectual breakthroughs
you have had about the nature of the multiverse. You might find other spells
during your adventures. You could discover a spell recorded on a scroll in an
evil wizard’s chest, for example, or in a dusty tome in an ancient library.

    Copying a Spell into the Book
        When you find a wizard spell of 1st level or higher, you can add it to
        your spellbook if it is of a spell level you can prepare and if you
        can spare the time to decipher and copy it.

        Copying that spell into your spellbook involves reproducing the basic
        form of the spell, then deciphering the unique system of notation used
        by the wizard who wrote it. You must practice the spell until you
        understand the sounds or gestures required, then transcribe it into
        your spellbook using your own notation.

        For each level of the spell, the process takes 2 hours and costs 50
        gp. The cost represents material components you expend as you
        experiment with the spell to master it, as well as the fine inks you
        need to record it. Once you have spent this time and money, you can
        prepare the spell just like your other spells.

    Replacing the Book
        You can copy a spell from your own spellbook into another book—for
        example, if you want to make a backup copy of your spellbook. This is
        just like copying a new spell into your spellbook, but faster and
        easier, since you understand your own notation and already know how to
        cast the spell. You need spend only 1 hour and 10 gp for each level of
        the copied spell.

        If you lose your spellbook, you can use the same procedure to
        transcribe the spells that you have prepared into a new spellbook.
        Filling out the remainder of your spellbook requires you to find new
        spells to do so, as normal. For this reason, many wizards keep backup
        spellbooks in a safe place.

    The Book’s Appearance
        Your spellbook is a unique compilation of spells, with its own
        decorative flourishes and margin notes. It might be a plain,
        functional leather volume that you received as a gift from your
        master, a finely bound gilt-edged tome you found in an ancient
        library, or even a loose collection of notes scrounged together after
        you lost your previous spellbook in a mishap.

### Arcane Recovery

You have learned to regain some of your magical energy by studying your
spellbook. Once per day, when you finish a Short Rest, you can choose expended
spell slots to recover. The spell slots can have a combined level up to half
of your Wizard level (rounded up), and none of the slots can be 6th level or
higher.

For example, if you are a 4th-level Wizard, you can recover up to two levels
worth of spells slots. You can recover either a 2nd-level slot or two
1st-level slots.
